---
title: "A Prayer"
author: "Brian DeVries"
description: ""
date: 2021-09-21
---

Another day! Thank you Lord for giving me today. Every breath is a gift that I take for granted from you. You are my rock and my salvation, stronger than the tallest mountain.

Please be with the Vierzen family. I don't know much about their situation, but you know every detail. Give them comfort and peace Father.

Be with Corey Vandyke's family as they are without their husband and dad years after his passing. The pain dulls with time, but I'm sure they will forever miss him. Thank you for wrapping them in your loving embrace.

Thank you for my family. I love my wife and boys. Please give me the strength to love them properly amidst the distractions of this world. I feel like social media and the lure of other distractions are new, but these struggles have been known by all mankind in some form. Keep me from thinking I have a special struggle that no one understands. Rather, give me courage to seek counsel from other men who love you.

Especially help me adjust my mindset toward my wife Hannah. She deserves to be pursued, attended to, and respected as I do myself.

My ambitions of paying off debt are quite instilled in my mind. Give me humility when Hannah and I talk about money next so that I don't make her feel small and less intelligent. She is just as important in our discussions and has valid points to make for how we manage our household.

When we talk, I want it to be a safe space for both of us to express our concerns and goals so we can work together.

As for money, you know my heart. Why am I so bent on paying off debt so quickly at the expense of caring for my family? Why do I continue to pour myself into new endeavors? There must be more to it than purely desiring to be debt free and financially independent. I can't seem to "sit" still for long before I come up with something else to work toward that sucks me in.

Give me peace and clarity about finances. You will care for us, I don't need to bear that burden because I can lay it at your feet. Help me to let go of my concerns and truly let you guide me.

You have provided me with a wonderful job. The pay is extravagant and we are not lacking for anything. Give Hannah and I generous hearts. I'm scared to give up my time because I've been focused on gaining more income to pay off debt quicker and save for retirement. But I know you call us to serve the body of the church.

Work in my heart to understand my shortcomings so I can be a contributing member of the congregation. You work in mysterious ways, I know that you will bring conversations and other unforeseen events into my life. No matter what lot I have in life, let me rest in you and seek refuge in you.

Please be with Jon and Rachel. They have 3 kids and a 4th on the way. Give Rachel and the baby good health. Give Jon a desire to know his kids and wife. Help him to slow down from work as well as me. He and I have different struggles, but the effects are similar if our families aren't cared for properly. Pour your Spirit out on our families. Help us all to realize that this life is temporary so we look forward to standing in your presence one day!

Kim is still in school, but she's wrapping up and preparing to work full time. Be with her as she continues to date Diego. You know Diego's heart better than any of us ever will. I pray that you would give him strength as a man of God. And if he doesn't truly believe in you and your word, please provide Kim a man who is fit to be a Godly husband to her.

Thank you for sparing Dylan so much with his DUI. I love him and want him to be excited for this next chapter. He wants to go into the military, which I know is a necessary position that many serve in. Please watch over him. May he learn from his mistake and guard himself from temptation. He is a caring, gentle young man. Please give him a desire to know you deeply.

Be with my mom and dad as they focus on paying down their debts. Part of my money obsession has been wanting to help them retire and pay off their debts. Give them a healthy relationship with money. Give Hannah and me a healthy relationship with money.

Bless Rose and Nathan as a newly married couple. Give them patience with one another as they sort through the differences in expectations they will have. Give them each humility and grace so they may learn to live together. Please give Nathan a desire to lead her in your word and in prayer. Time spent together in your presence is not time wasted and is important for our marriages.

Be with Alex and Caitlyn. You know the struggles we have had with them. May we show them love and compassion. Please give Alex a guiding hand for his family as well. Make them to know you intimately as well.

Elijah is in highschool, where many kids are lost and searching. Please give him assurance that you are his savior and sustainer in this life. There's nothing more important than you. I know I don't act that way and need to change my ways. I pray that you would make us all better men and women.

Modern society has so many safety nets that it's easy to think we have everything under control, but we need you just as much as anyone ever has! Despite all the regulations, accidents still happen. Other struggles arise. We still need to rely on you and your sustaining hand each and every day. Give us this day our daily bread.

---

> A man is not measured by what he has, but by what he gives away.
