---
author: Brian DeVries
title: April 2024
description: A review of what happened in my life during April 2024
date: 2024-05-03T08:50:00.000Z
---
Sometimes I find it hard to remember what I did in the last month. Keeping track of my plans and accomplishments on my calendar and in my journal helps me when I feel like I haven't done anything recently. It's similar to a "done" list, where you record what you've accomplished to keep yourself motivated. Anyway, here are some of the things I was up to last month:

- My oldest son started spring soccer
- We got a trampoline on facebook marketplace for $50
  - The kids absolutely LOVE it
- My youngest son got a helmet to fix a flat spot on his head
- My dog got groomed, she was looking pretty shaggy
- 4 out of 5 in my family survived a stomach illness 😬
- I went up north near Kalkaska, MI to celebrate my brother-in-law as a father-to-be
- Some of my coworkers and I helped clean up Pere Marquette beach as a service project with Meijer
- I watched the total solar eclipse. It was only 93% totality here West Michigan, but still pretty cool!
- We planted a dozen blueberry bushes in our backyard
- I built a gazebo on our back deck so we can get some shade this summer
- I got my lawn mower up and running with a new blade for the season

So it turns out I've been keeping busy, and that doesn't even include most of my social engagements, church, or extended family plans. It's easy to feel like life is really busy, but forget what I've actually been up to. Reflecting helps me slow down and give thanks to God for his goodness.

Take some time to write out what you've been up to this past month. It's a cathartic process. If you post your reflections on your own site, I'd love to read it. Or if you want to shoot me an email with what you've been up to, that would be awesome too.

Until next time!
